-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going
to get a very high level introduction
about what are Fargate profiles
and what is Fargate
and then what is this Fargate serverless.
So as part
of this section we are going to add our new feature
to our EKS cluster, which is Fargate profiles.
So let's move on and understand
on a very high level what is Fargate?
So Fargate is a serverless compute platform
for containers on AWS.
So Fargate provides
on demand right-sized compute capacity for our containers.
So EKS integrates Kubernetes with Fargate
by using the controllers that are built
by AWS using the upstream extensible model provided
by Kubernetes.
So these controllers run as part
of EKS manager Kubernetes control plane and are responsible
for scheduling net Kubernetes port onto Fargate.
So the Fargate controllers include a new scheduler that runs
alongside that default Kubernetes scheduler in addition
to several mutating
and then validating admission controllers.
So these four points are very important
on a Kubernetes perspective
on EKs in relation with Fargate.
So these four points I directly took it
from documentation and then tested here.
So the reason is like, so when we want
to understand how Kubernetes sees scheduling the ports
on Fargate related serverless infrastructure
the answer is we have the Fargate controllers created
by AWS using this upstream extensible model.
And due to that, it is able to schedule the parts
on the Fargate serverless platform.
So when we start a part that meets the criteria
for running on Fargate, the Fargate controllers running
in the cluster recognize update
and then schedule the ports on the Fargate.
So that's about the Fargate on a very high level
but the key point in the slide is we are going
to have Fargate controllers
inside our EKs manager control plane
which is built using upstream extensible model provided
by Kubernetes for scheduling the parts on Fargate.
So that's the key point here.
Moving on, so AWS, EKS on Fargate.
So let's understand what we are going to get using that.
Okay, so we can directly bring our existing ports
and then deploy to Fargate without any hassle.
So we don't need to change our existing ports.
So Fargate works with existing workflows
and services that run
on Kubernetes no changes straight away.
You can bring and then deploy here
but there is one condition.
The last slide
of this lecture will have something called considerations.
So very, very important thing.
So when we are running things on Fargate
so how we say bring and then run as easily
at the same time there are some architectural decisions
and then what it supports
and then what it doesn't support also provided
by AWS and that is a big list.
Okay, so that one also we need
to see those are called Fargate considerations.
So we also need to have a knowledge
on those things if we want
to bring our applications to run on Fargate.
So next thing is they are production ready.
So now EKS Fargate is production ready.
So we can launch ports easily to Fargate and it runs ports
across availability zones for high high availability
and each port runs in an isolated compute and environment.
So this is a very important point from Fargate perspective.
We will multiple times trust this point
in our course in the next upcoming hands
on lectures stating that one point is one part is equal
to one easy to Fargate instance in our EKS.
So whenever we launch a port, it is going
to generate a easy to Fargate instance automatically
in the background.
And whenever you say cube CTL get notes whenever you
have deployed five Fargate ports, then you'll get five easy
to Fargate worker notes available for you.
And then you can see that using Q CTL get notes
and next thing is right sized and then integrated.
So this is something like how much you need use
that much only.
So if my part needs these many resources
then use that much only.
So only pay for resources you need to run your ports.
So it also includes means like Fargate
also includes AWS integrations
for networking and then security.
So networking and security is not compromised
by using Fargate on EKS.
Moreover, your security is doubled.
Only we can say not reduced.
Okay, so now EKS deployment options available for us.
Okay, when we bringing Fargate into the picture.
So what all deployment options EKS is available
If it take a look on a very high level, that looks great.
Okay, so that's the reason I have put this slide.
Okay, so we can have only easy
to node groups which are managed or unmanaged
or we can have a mixer deployment with the easy to manage
in node groups, easy to unmanaged it in not groups.
And then Fargate are only Fargate cluster means
like only a cluster EKS cluster control plan
which Fargate profiles can be created.
So you can see easy to node groups
with manage are easy too
and then unmanaged it easy two nodes.
And if you see overall our entire this course
will be dependent on manager easy
to nodes and the Fargate profiles.
So we really didn't do anything related
to unmanaged easy node, easy to notes wherein you need
to bring your own AMI and then your own AMI
and then you need to manage it using EKS control plan
and this is legacy.
And then this is the trend which is running now
which is managed easy two nodes.
So we focus on this one primarily
but as this option is available, so I just put it here.
Okay, so now the next thing is manage it notes
and manage it notes and then Fargate notes
in the mixer mode.
And in Fargate you can only have Fargate notes
in simple terms Fargate serverless.
Okay, so you don't even need to say notes here.
Okay, and next thing is in deployment options when
you have easy to node groups.
Okay primarily we are focusing
on manage or node groups only.
Wherever I say node groups it is going
to be managed node groups, okay?
So in a AWS cloud
whenever you create a EKS cluster it is also
going to create a VPC.
And when we create a manager node group as part of that
so you can create your manager node group
in public subnet or you can create in private subnet.
So this flexibility we have when we
are do dealing with EC two instances.
So you can have your manager node groups created in
both public and then private subnets and then handle that.
So, but when we go
to Fargate you'll have a restriction there.
So we'll go there and then see it.
So in only Fargate more.
So we are going to have our respective Fargate profiles
get created only inside private subnet.
So parts running
on Fargate are only supported on private subnets.
In that case whenever you have a EKS cluster
and then whenever you want to deploy your loads
on Fargate in your cluster
at least to one private subnet should be there
to create your Fargate profiles and moving on.
So how the mixer mode deployment looks like.
Okay, so you can see that in mixer mode.
So you'll have the easy to instances in private
and then public subnets and then you can create your public
and then private manage node groups there.
And then for Fargate you definitely need
to force yourself to create your EKS Fargate profile
in your private subnets and moving
on EKS Fargate versus manage it versus unmanaged nodes.
So this is one thing which AWS highly portraits and
and this simple thing makes us understand many stuff here.
Okay, so one is units of work, okay?
So in units of work for Fargate it is just only a port.
So it is concerned with only a port.
So whenever you deploy a port it is going
to create a new underlying Fargate easy to instance
but it it concerns about only a port.
But in manager notes we first create easy two instances
and then we deploy our parts in them
and in unmanaged notes also it is the same thing.
And unit soft charge means like
how the billing happens, okay?
So here in Fargate it is going to be ports.
So when you are dealing with multi-tenancy and environments
and then you want to charge for specific clients
per port meant, like they have few parts running
and then for them you want to charge
this is one good option for us, okay?
And in the charging perspective
in manage notes is going to be based
on the number of easy two worker notes in
in unmanaged also it's the same and host life cycle, okay?
So there is no visibility
of the host from Fargate perspective.
So visibility in the sense you will not be able to connect
to that host visible in the sense
if you say Q CTL get notes.
So this Fargate notes also will be visible
for us per pod it is going to span one node, right?
So but ideally we don't have access to that nodes, okay?
So they can terminate
and then recreate our what is happening inside that node
is not our business, only our business
is what I'm going to deploy
from port perspective in Fargate but in manage nodes.
So we'll have the AWS SS such is allowed
in the manager nodes.
So whenever we are creating the cluster also
we are giving a tag there to provide SSH although
and then access and then keep our information also
in our node group creation command
whatever we have seen so far.
And in unmanaged nodes.
So the host life cycles customer dependent, okay?
So we really don't care here, okay?
So which means AWS really don't care
about what you are going to use
and then how you are going
to handle your authentication authorization about your host
and in host AMI perspective.
So we really don't have any visibility about the host AMI
in our Fargate because we are not even able to log
in or we are not controlling that.
Okay, but in manage notes it is AWS
whether AMS will be provided for us
and then they will be patched auto updated from AWS for us.
Okay, so that's the reason that is called manager notes.
And from unmanaged notes perspective customer
bring your own thing, okay?
So which means including the OS also you need to bring
and then just
to use the EKS cluster control plan with that so lot
and lot of hard work we need to do.
But why do you use unmanaged notes, right?
So that's based on means like it's a legacy.
And then recently they introduce the manager notes
and then we can start using management notes.
So now host to two ports relations.
So this is very, very important
for us to make a note from Fargate perspective.
So one host, one Fargate host is equal to one port.
So if you span 10 ports, then it is 10 Fargate hosts, okay?
But in manager notes you can have two instances
and then you can span many ports based on the CPU
and then memory resources available in those notes.
It's the same case one too many in unmanaged notes.
So that's
about the Fargate versus manage it versus unmanaged notes.
And next thing is Fargate considerations.
Okay, so these are very big.
So what we need to do is we need
to take this documentation link and then review them.
So there are many considerations we need to be aware
of before we decide our Kubernetes workloads to run
on Fargate, okay?
So that's very important here.
So let me copy this link and then go here and paste it.
Okay.
And if you see here the considerations, right?
So let me make it bigger right?
Okay, this looks good.
Okay, so these are the Fargate considerations we need
to worry about when we are dealing with it.
Okay, so when you see here
the first thing itself is the thing classic load balancer
and network load balancer are not supported
on Fargate only application load balancer
with LB ingress is supported with the minimum version.
It should have this one.
This is one thing and like this
there are many things, okay?
Damon sets are not supported.
So you can grow, go through all this stuff here.
So as we have documentation link whenever you
are deciding your real production workloads planning to run
on Fargate.
So you need to go go through all these things.
Currently, GPU was also not available
and privilege containers you cannot run
and demonstrates are not supported.
So like this, there are many things, parts running
on Fargate need to only run on private subnets, okay?
You can use the vertical port auto scale
to initially right size the CPU and memory
for your Fargate ports
and then use the HAR gentle port auto scaler.
Okay, so state full applications are not recommended
for parts running on Fargate as on today, okay?
They, they doesn't have a persistent database, okay?
Persistent disc.
So for purpose, these are not load, okay?
So like this many things are there here.
So which you need to go through and then understand.
And then based on that, only decide if you
if your workloads can run here
your production workloads can run on Fargate or not.
So that's about the overall Fargate introduction, okay?
So we'll continue to the hands on section
in our next lecture.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.